R  E  A  L    W O  R  L  D

Print Production

with Adobe® Creative Cloud®

INDUSTRIAL-STRENGTH PRODUCTION TECHNIQUES 

Tools for
designers and
production artists

Tips for offset
digital printing

Tricks for maximum
efficiency

CLAUDIA Mc CUE 


R  E  A  L    W O  R  L  D

Print Production

with Adobe® Creative Cloud®

INDUSTRIAL-STRENGTH p RODUCTION TECHNIQUES 

CLAUDIA Mc CUE


REAL WORLD PRINT PRODUCTION WITH ADOBE CREATIVE CLOUD

Claudia McCue

Copyright © 2014 by Claudia McCue

For the latest on Adobe Press books, go to www.adobepress.com
This Adobe Press book is published by Peachpit

To report errors, please send a note to errata@peachpit.com
Peachpit is a division of Pearson Education

Project Editor: Susan Rimerman

Production Editor: Maureen Forys, Happenstance Type-O-Rama
Copy Editor: Kelly Kordes Anton

Technical Editor: Chad Chelius
Proofreader: Suki Gear

Compositor: Craig Woods, Happenstance Type-O-Rama
Indexer: James Minkin

Cover Design: Charlene Charles Will
Cover Illustration: Alicia Buelow

Notice of Rights

All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced or transmitted in any form by any
means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written
permission of the publisher. For information on getting permission for reprints and excerpts, con-
tact permissions@peachpit.com.

Notice of Liability

The information in this book is distributed on an “As Is” basis without warranty. While every 
precau-
tion has been taken in the preparation of the book, neither the author nor Peachpit shall have any
liability to any person or entity with respect to any loss or damage caused or alleged to be caused
directly  or indirectly by the instructions contained in this book or by the computer software and
hardware products described in it.

Trademarks

Adobe InDesign, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, and Adobe Acrobat are registered trademarks of
Adobe Systems, Incorporated in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks are 
the
property of their respective owners. Many of the designations used by manufacturers and sellers to
distinguish their products are claimed as trademarks. Where those designations appear in this book,
and Peachpit was aware of a trademark claim, the designations appear as requested by the owner

of the trademark. All other product names and services identified throughout this book are used in
editorial fashion only and for the benefit of such companies with no intention of infringement of 
the
trademark. No such use, or the use of any trade name, is intended to convey endorsement or other
affiliation with this book.

ISBN-10 0-321-97032-2

ISBN-13 978-032197032-9

9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

Printed and bound in the United States of America


Table of Contents

Introduction                                    vi

Chapter One: Life Cycle of a Print Job                      1

The Olden Days                                  2

Designer                                      3

Typesetter                                     3

Photographer                                   3

Trade Shop                                     3

Printer                                       3

Job Submission                                  6

Scenic Tour of a Typical Printing Plant                      6

Glossary of Printing Terms                            21

Chapter Two: Ink on Paper                           39

Fundamentals of Black-and-White Printing                  39

Fundamentals of Color Printing                         42

Press Issues                                    51

Digital Printing                                  59

Your Monitor Is Not Made of Paper                      63

Chapter Three: Trimming, Binding, and Finishing              69

One Size Does Not Fit All                            69

Folding: High-Speed Origami                          74

Imposition                                    76

Binding Methods                                 85

Moving Beyond Two Dimensions                        90

Chapter Four: Preparing Raster Images                   99

Ancient Times: B.P. (Before Pixels)                      100

All About Pixels                                 100

Imaging Software                                102

Resolution and Image Fidelity                          103

Scanning Artwork                                106

Cropping and Transforming Images                      106

Appropriate Image Formats for Print                     109

Inappropriate Image Formats for Print                     119

Chapter Five: Vector Graphics                         121

Vector File Formats                               122

Handling Text                                  125

Incorporating Images into Vector Files                     127

Avoiding Unnecessary Complexity                       128


iv  TABLE OF CONTENTS

Chapter Six: Fonts                               131

Font Flavors                                   131

Fonts Installed by Creative Cloud                        138

Activating Fonts in the Operating System                    139

Font-Management Programs                         140

Typekit Desktop Fonts                             141

Font Licensing Issues                              143

Chapter Seven: Cross-Platform Issues                   147

Crossing the Great Divide                            148

Naming Files                                  148

Fonts                                      152

Sending Files from Mac to Windows                      153

Sending Files from Windows to Mac                      154

Graphics Formats                                155

Compressing Files                                155

Chapter Eight: Job Submission                        157

Preparations During the Design Process                     158

Talking with the Printer                             158

Planning for Print                                160

Sending Job Files                                166

Preparing for Proofing Cycles                          170

Attending a Press Check                            174

Chapter Nine: Creative Cloud                         177

Understanding Creative Cloud                         177

Version Determination                             180

Creating Work for Users of Older Versions                   180

Chapter Ten: Photoshop Production Tips                  183

Off to a Good Start                               183

Know the Fate of the Image                           184

Image Resolution                                185

Color Space                                   186

Working in Layers                                188

Transparency                                  195

Silhouettes and Masking                            197

Silhouetting Soft-Edged Subjects                        201

Beyond CMYK                                 205

Adding Spot Color to a CMYK Image                     207

Creating a Spot Varnish Plate                         208

Vector Content                                 209

Saving for Other Applications                          211


TABLE OF CONTENTS   v

Chapter Eleven: Illustrator Production Tips                 213

Document Profile and Color Mode                      213

Artboards                                    215

Using Symbols                                 219

Simplifying Complex Artwork                         222

Live Effects                                   224

Using the Appearance Panel                          227

Creating 3D Artwork                              231

Transparency                                  233

Flattening Transparency                            235

Linked and Embedded Images                         237

Blended Objects                                 239

Spot Colors                                   240

Type and Fonts                                 245

Why Versions Matter                              251

Saving for Other Applications                          255

Creating PDF Files                               259

Opening PDF Files in Illustrator                        260

Chapter Twelve: InDesign Production Tips                 261

Graphics                                     261

Using Native Files                                273

Swatches                                    280

Alternate Layouts                                285

Miscellaneous Document Tips                         289

Transparency                                  296

Finding and Fixing Problems                          307

PDF Creation Methods                             314

PDF Creation Settings                              315

Chapter Thirteen: Acrobat Production Tips                 317

Acrobat Product Line                              318

Where Do PDFs Come From?                          319

Creating PDF Files                               319

Editing PDF Files                                327

Comment and Review                             330

Print Production Tools                             339

Using External PDF Editors                           354

Index                                      355

Bonus chapters mentioned in this eBook are available after the index

Chapter Fourteen: Print Production Resources ................................. A-1


Introduction

Much has changed in the realm of printing since the original edition of this book. Film has
been almost totally abandoned in favor of direct-to-plate imaging, and the quality of digi-
tal printing processes rivals that of traditional offset. Updating the book has been a bit like
time travel, as I deleted sections devoted to processes that have fallen by the wayside and
expanded portions that described new-at-the-time techniques that are now commonplace.

I’m not a designer — I’m a printing geek. I spent half my life in prepress, troubleshoot-
ing, fixing jobs, and meeting impossible deadlines. I still love printing. I love the heavy
rhythm of presses, the smell of the chemicals, the beehive bustle of a pressroom. I love
to  see paper roll in one end of the press and printed sheets fly out the other end. I hope
I can pass some of this printing love on to you.

Who Should Read This Book

If you are a designer or a production artist who would like a better understanding of
the pitfalls you encounter when using Adobe Creative Cloud software, you’ll find lots of
pointers in this book to help you avoid problems. Almost all software provides options
that  are tempting to choose but are dangerous under some circumstances. It’s good to
know which buttons not to push — and why.

Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign form a powerful ecosystem. Consequently, choices
you make in Photoshop can limit your options when you place an image in InDesign.

Options you choose in InDesign can affect the quality of the PDF you create. And so on.
You need an aerial view of the programs’ capabilities so you can anticipate the outcome.
It would help if you were psychic, too, but that’s another book entirely.

I believe that the more designers undertstand about the physical requirements of the
printing process, the more easily they can avoid problems. This book can explain why your
printer sometimes asks you to modify your designs for print. Better yet, you can beat them
to  it, and they will compliment you on how well-prepared your jobs always are.

If you are an in-house designer or marketing department member, you may have been
thrown into the deep end, suddenly given the responsibility of preparing work for print.
This book may help you understand the mysterious new world of print.


WHAT THIS BOOK IS NOT  vii


If you are a prepress production operator, you’ll find many reminders of
subtle problems that can lurk in graphics or page layouts. If you’re new to
printing, you’ll find beneficial insights into what’s happening on the other
side   of the pressroom door. And if you’re looking for a gentle way to educate
clients who keep submitting nightmare jobs, well, a book always makes a
nice gift, doesn’t it?

For purchasing this book, you are also entitled to bonus Chapter 14, “Print
Production Resources.” To download, register your book at peachpit.com/
register. Create an account if you don’t have one (it’s free!). Then add this
isbn: 0321970322. Look for the content on the “My Registered Products”
page and click “Access Bonus Content.” If you purchased an ebook, bonus
Chapter 14 is already included at the end.

What This Book Is Not

If you’re in the market for a hot-tips-and-tricks book, this isn’t it. It’s not a
guide for stunning special effects (unless you consider it a special effect to get
your job to print as expected). And, although this book demonstrates how to
do some useful things in the Adobe Creative Cloud programs, it isn’t strictly
a how-to book either. In fact, there’s quite a bit of how-not-to.

Are there any prerequisites for using this book? Only two, really. First, you
should have basic proficiency with your computer and operating system, as
well  as the basics of InDesign, Illustrator, and Photoshop. The other require-
ment is arguably more important: You should have a healthy curiosity about
the printing process and a desire to build problem-free files.

About the Author

I was a chemistry major. Really. But I had a knack for illustration, and
I took some college art classes for extra credit. One of my instructors

(Michael Parkes, who has since become a well-known fine artist in Europe)
suggested that I change my career path from chemistry to commercial

art. I thought, “Well, I’ll try it for a while,” and took a job at a printing
plant that summer. A funny thing happened: I fell in love with printing
and never went back to the lab. (Thanks, Michael.) Printing turned out to
be the perfect environment for someone who held the dual titles of Class
Clown and Science Student of the Year.

NOTE You know you’ve
been in printing a long

time if:

• Your grocery list has hang-
ing indents.

• Your driver’s license
lists your eye color as
PANTONE 5757.

•  Your shoe size is 61⁄2 plus

1⁄8-inch bleed.

•  You refer to painting your
house as a two-color job.

•  You decide to write a book
called Real World Print
Production with Adobe
Creative Cloud.


viii  INTRODUCTION

As a prepress production person, I always enjoyed troubleshooting, discovering new techniques,
and sharing those discoveries with coworkers. I started in conventional paste-up and then moved
into film stripping. (It’s not what you think. See the glossary in Chapter 1, “Life Cycle of a 
Print Job.”)
And I was extremely fortunate (or cursed) to be one of the very early operators of color electronic
prepress systems in the United States, so I’ve been pushing pixels around for a long time. Then,
because    it could perform the same magic as a Scitex or Crosfield system (minus the million-dollar
price tag), Adobe Photoshop lured me to desktop computers.

I always believed in educating customers so they wouldn’t be intimidated by the mysteries of print-
ing. Not surprisingly, that led to my second career as a trainer, consultant, writer, and presenter 
at
industry conferences.

Acknowledgments

I’m passing on to you some of the Basic Printing Truths imparted to me by a number of fine old
printing curmudgeons. Count yourself truly lucky if you’re befriended by a craftsman like Rick
Duncan, who came up through the ranks, learned how to do everything the old-fashioned way,
and was always patient with a kid asking too many questions.

I’m part of an informal fraternity of graphic arts aficionados. While we each have our special-
ties, our common bond is the love of learning and sharing new tricks. David Blatner, Scott
Citron, Sandee “Vector Babe” Cohen, Anne-Marie Concepción, Bob Levine, and Mike Rankin
are   my InDesign brethren (and sistren), going back to the days when we were considered page-
layout rebels. Mordy Golding’s passion for Illustrator is contagious, and he shares my devotion
to enlightening designers in the mysteries of print.

It’s priceless to have friends on the inside at Adobe Systems: Dov Isaacs and Lonn Lorenz have been
generous with their dry humor and no-nonsense advice on PostScript and PDF for years. And Noha
Edell  has long provided inspirational support and encouragement. PDF Sage Leonard Rosenthol has
frequently enlightened me on arcane Acrobat mysteries.

I’m pleased to have the opportunity to update this book for Creative Cloud; it’s sort of like 
reincar-
nation. It’s truly gratifying that the first two editions have been used as textbooks in some 
schools.
Thanks to Kelly Kordes Anton for policing my commas and technical editor Chad Chelius for ensur-
ing that I wasn’t spreading any myths. Thanks to Suki Gear, Craig Woods, and Maureen Forys for
their proofreading, composition, and production work, and James Minkin for crafting the index.

Now go out there and make me proud!


This page intentionally left blank


Preparing Raster
Images

Whether you acquire an image from a scanner, a digital camera, a royalty-
free CD with 1,000,000 images, or a stock photography vendor, it’s made out
of pixels. Pixel is shorthand for picture element, the smallest unit of informa-
tion in a digitized image. Even though pictures on your monitor look like
smooth transitions of color, zoom in sufficiently and you’ll see all the little
square pixels that actually make up the image (Figure 4.1). While pixels
make   it possible to do much of what we do in the graphic arts, they’re also
the cause of some important limitations.

Figure 4.1 Images are
made of pixels. Think of
them as tiny mosaic tiles.


100  CHAPTER 4: PREPARING RASTER IMAGES

Ancient Times: B.P. (Before Pixels)

In the olden days of graphic arts, enormous cameras were used to photo-
graph artwork such as drawings, reflective photographic prints, transpar-
encies, and painted illustrations. Highly skilled specialists commandeered
these monstrosities, some of which occupied entire rooms (the cameras, not
the specialists). The use of colored filters, masking, and exposure methods to
produce color separations (a separate piece of film for each printing ink) was
rather arcane and required years of apprenticeship and study to perfect. And
since every step required the use of specialized film, there were a lot of trips
to   a darkroom to develop the results in chemical baths. It all seemed very
high-tech at the time (well, compared to cave paintings), but the process was
quite time-consuming.

All About Pixels

Film has given way to pixels, and we have gone from dog-eared color photo-
graphic prints and moldy 35mm slides to storing our family photos on piles
of  CDs, and now into the nebulous world of cloud storage. What was once
the province of the darkroom became a daylight venture, and the tools of
the craftsmen became available to anyone brave enough to wade in.

Scanners

While early scanners still required highly skilled graphic arts professionals to
operate them, they greatly sped up the process of capturing artwork for color
separations. Early analog models used photomultiplier tubes and a daunting
array of knobs and buttons to perform the same job that had been done by
the huge cameras. The first scanners were petite only by comparison to their
gigantic camera ancestors: Many could easily dwarf a Volkswagen. It was nec-
essary to mount artwork on a heavy, clear plastic drum and then painstak-
ingly ensure that there was no dust or a trapped air bubble to mar the scan.
Scanner operators came from the ranks of color-separation cameramen, and
their years of finely honed instincts for camera separations translated well to
the newer methods. Thus began the move to digital capture and storage of
image information, resulting in our devotion to the pixel and the advent

of digital retouching.


ALL ABOUT PIXELS  101


In the mid-1990s, improvements in the capabilities and simplicity of flatbed
scanners, coupled with the widespread usage of Adobe Photoshop, led to a
major change in the way color separations were performed. It was no longer
necessary to mount artwork on cylindrical drums, and the numerous knobs
were replaced with onscreen buttons and dialog boxes. The digital imaging
revolution was underway. Suddenly, people who weren’t sure what color
separation meant were making color separations.

As flatbed scanners have become more automated and less expensive,

it’s relatively easy even for novices to make a decent scan. But the more you
know about what constitutes a good image, the better the chance you can
create a great image from the pixels generated by your scanner.

Digital Cameras

Today’s scanners capture transparencies, negative film, paintings, and
illustrations and express them as pixels. High-end digital cameras now
rival    — or exceed — the ability of film-based cameras to capture photo-
graphic detail. The image captured by the camera is a digital original, so
there’s no need to scan a print. Of course, the better the camera and the
photographer, the better the image. The rapid evolution of digital image
capture   is such that today’s cellphones take pictures with more inherent
information than the earliest digital cameras.

While conventional camera film — such as 35mm transparencies — must be
scanned to be used on your computer, digital camera images can be down-
loaded directly to the computer and used immediately. Digital photography
also cuts out the middleman. Unlike film images, digital images don’t have
any grain, although an image photographed in low lighting conditions

may tax the resolving capabilities of a digital camera’s sensor, resulting in
unwanted digital noise.

Consumer point-and-shoot cameras deliver captured images as JPEG,

a compressed format. There are degrees of compression, from gentle to
aggressive, and you may never notice any visible artifacts betraying the
compression. But higher level “prosumer” cameras and professional digital
cameras  can deliver images in the Camera Raw format, which is subjected
to minimal processing by the camera. While you cannot place a Raw file
directly into Illustrator or InDesign, Raw images can be opened directly

in Photoshop and saved in another format, such as Photoshop PSD.

TIP While you can’t
place a Camera Raw

file directly into Illustrator or
InDesign, there is a work-
around.   In the Camera Raw
module within Photoshop, hold
down Shift as you click Open
(the Open Image button
changes to an Open Object
button): this will open the
image   as a Smart Object in
Photoshop. Save the image as
a   PSD, and you can then place
it in Illustrator or InDesign
while retaining the secret
Camera Raw editing ability.

Back in Photoshop, just double-
click the Smart Object to edit in
Camera Raw.


102  CHAPTER 4: PREPARING RASTER IMAGES

Raw files can be color corrected in the Photoshop Camera Raw environment
without losing additional information. For example, an image shot under
daylight conditions but with the camera’s white balance set to fluorescent
lighting can be corrected with one click in the Camera Raw environment
without the loss of information that would be incurred by using a Levels or
Curves correction in Photoshop.

If you are a point-and-shoot photographer who just wants to capture
moments from a quick vacation, you may consider Raw files to be overkill.
But   for professional photographers, Camera Raw is a powerful and flexible
format, often enabling the recovery or enhancement of details and tones
that would be lost in a JPEG file.

Imaging Software

Once you have captured pixels, it’s likely that you’ll feel compelled to modify
them. The industry standard imaging application is Adobe Photoshop, and
for good reason. Photoshop provides controls for color correction that enable
a knowledgeable user to achieve results equal to those of a knob-twisting
scanner operator. Its tools surpass the capabilities of the original, million-
dollar dedicated systems. If you’re just beginning to learn Photoshop, you
won’t lack for educational resources. You could probably build an addition

to your house from the books devoted to exploring Photoshop. You can add
Chapter 10, “Photoshop Production Tips,” to the pile.

Photoshop is arguably the most versatile and widely accepted application
for image manipulation, but there are other applications that perform use-
ful imaging functions as well.

Adobe Photoshop Elements® (Mac/PC) might be regarded as “Photoshop
Lite,” but it still packs a hefty arsenal of retouching and color-correction
tools. The product is geared toward enthusiasts and lacks support for
CMYK images.

Adobe Lightroom™ (Mac/PC) is engineered for use by photographers and
provides sophisticated tools for organizing and color correcting images.

Apple iPhoto® (Mac only) is geared toward hobbyists, with organizational
tools and limited color-correction capabilities. However, it offers no support
for CMYK images.


RESOLUTION AND IMAGE FIDELITY  103

Aperture (Mac only) is targeted to photographers and includes support for
Camera Raw files. It provides organizational tools as well as color-correction
controls but provides no support for CMYK images.

These are not the only solutions that exist for manipulating images. There
are painting programs, such as Painter™ and Paint Shop Pro® (both from
Corel®), which let you easily make images resemble watercolors or oil paint-
ings. Imaging tools for consumer and hobbyist photographers increase on a
daily basis. However, most of these programs don’t offer support for CMYK
images, so they’re not the best tools if you’re preparing images for print.

Let’s face it—if you’re designing for print, you can’t live without Photoshop.
When the name of a product becomes a verb — “Please Photoshop that out”—
it’s  a sure sign that the product has become the industry standard.

Resolution and Image Fidelity

The resolution of an image is generally measured in pixels per inch (ppi)
unless you speak metric, in which case it’s expressed in pixels per millimeter.
Determining the proper resolution for Web images is simple: 72 ppi at final
size.     But there are strongly held (and hotly debated) beliefs regarding the
appropriate image resolution for printing. Some hold that 150 percent of the
final  screen ruling value is sufficient, and some believe twice the final ruling
is preferable, largely because it’s easier to calculate the resolution. For exam-
ple, an image that will be printed at 150 line screen should have a resolution
of 300 ppi. In the past, when typical hard drives held 80 MB, networks were
glacially slow, and RIPs choked on 15 MB PostScript files, it was important to
trim  off every little bit of fat, so we agonized over resolution. But now, with
hard drives measured in hundreds of gigabytes, and RIPs with much more
robust digestive tracts, we can afford the luxury of a few extra pixels. That
said, there’s rarely an advantage to exceeding 300 ppi, except in some cases
for higher line screens such as 175 lpi printing. So put away the calculator.

For most circumstances, 300 ppi at final size is adequate and provides a bit of
elbow room if you have to slightly reduce or enlarge an image.

But you do have some leeway, depending on the nature of the image and
how it will be used. For example, a gauzy, soft-focus shot of a sunset that
will be used as a ghosted background accent in a magazine can be used at
200 ppi with no problem. A highly detailed close-up image of an important


104  CHAPTER 4: PREPARING RASTER IMAGES


Figure 4.2 You can’t
truly make something from
nothing. Notice the loss of
detail in the scaled-up
version (D) versus the
original (A).

piece of antique jewelry in a 175 lpi art book should be at 300–350 ppi. At
the other end of the spectrum, an image for use in an 85 lpi newspaper can

be 130–170 ppi, because much of the information in a 300 ppi image would be
lost when printed in the coarse newspaper screen ruling. Consider the deter-
mination of appropriate resolution to be an equation based on image content
and  the final printing line screen rather than an absolute number.

Scaling Up

When enlarging or reducing an image, don’t be afraid to slightly reduce or
enlarge an image. But be aware that when an image is scanned or captured
by  a digital camera, it contains a fixed number of pixels. When you enlarge
an image, you’re attempting to generate missing information in a process
called interpolation; the result is never as good as a proper-sized original
scan. And the more drastic the transformation, the less satisfying the out-
come (Figure 4.2).

A                    B

C                    D


RESOLUTION AND IMAGE FIDELITY  105

Because of the limitations imposed by resolution, it’s helpful if you can
anticipate how the image will be used and control photography or scanning
accordingly. For typical image content, you can probably scale up to 120–125
percent.  If the image is background content without much detail, such as

a soft-focus landscape, you have more leeway and can probably get away
with scaling up to 150–200 percent. Conversely, if you need to maintain very
small details, you may be limited to a maximum of 120 percent.

Photoshop CC introduced a new method that does a better job of scaling up
images and upsampling them to higher resolutions—Preserve Details. While
the results won’t be equal to a higher resolution original image, it’s a definite
improvement over earlier methods (Figure 4.3).

Figure 4.3 If you have
to scale up an image, or

artificially increase its resolu-
tion, be sure to choose the
Preserve Details option in

the Photoshop CC Image Size
dialog box. Tip: If you select
“Automatic,” Photoshop CC
chooses the best method for
resampling.

Scaling Down

Scaling down an image also involves interpolation. While the loss of data
may not be quite so obvious when you reduce the size of an image, there can
be some softening of detail. For best results, choose the Automatic option in
the Image Size dialog box in Photoshop CC; it applies some sharpening to
camouflage the reduction in detail. While it’s acceptable to scale images in
InDesign,  if you find it necessary to scale an image below 75 percent of its
original size in your page layout, consider scaling it down in Photoshop CC
instead, because InDesign can’t sharpen image content.


106  CHAPTER 4: PREPARING RASTER IMAGES

Scanning Artwork

If you are incorporating flat artwork such as pen-and-ink drawings or paint-
ings in your design, you have several choices for digitizing the artwork. If
you have a good flatbed scanner, you may be able to capture the artwork
without any special handling. To provide some flexibility in later usages of
the scanned image, consider performing two scans at 100 percent: one at
300 ppi, and one at 600 ppi if your scanner supports it. Then, you have two
robust images that can be resized for a wider range of uses.

If your flatbed scanner isn’t up to the task, ask if your print service provider
performs scanning. Many printers have high-end scanners capable of cap-
turing and enlarging artwork. If you have transparencies or negative film
that must be scanned, the printer’s professional scanners can capture detail
and perform enlargements with higher-quality results than are possible
with consumer-level scanners.

Some materials, such as textured paper, dimensional paint (such as heavy
acrylic or oil paint), metal, or transparent substrates, don’t scan well. The
scanner’s illumination bounces off metallic components and often appears
black   in the scanned image. Because of the even, frontal lighting of the scan-
ner, texture is subdued or lost. And you can’t very well pin a statue under
the  lid of your scanner. If you have to capture a challenging art piece, the
best solution might be to hire a photographer who specializes in capturing
fine art pieces and has experience lighting and photographing such projects.

Cropping and Transforming Images

It would be great if you could anticipate the exact size, crop, and angle at
which you’ll want to use an image in your page layout. But it may be difficult
to see that far down the line at the moment you’re pressing the button on
your camera, or slipping a print under the lid of your flatbed scanner. Oh,
and watch out for that little gust of wind that comes along just as you’re put-
ting the scanner lid down…


CROPPING AND TRANSFORMING IMAGES  107

Cropping

Should you crop your images? Maybe. If you’re certain about future image
use, feel free to crop. Leave a reasonable rind around the image area you
intend to use to provide some elbow room when you place the image in the
final page, so you have room to reposition the image, or to provide bleed
for the page. However, if you think there’s even a remote chance that you’ll
want to use more of the image in the near future — maybe you’re not sure
if  you might want to show a row of four buildings instead of just the one in
the middle — then it’s worth keeping the whole shebang. While you may be
reluctant to store an entire image just to keep the part with the 2-inch golf

ball that you’re sure you will silhouette, give yourself a safety net and at least
keep an uncropped backup copy of the image. Hard drive space is plentiful
and you can always crop it later. It’s hard to recover that extra person you
lopped off last week who turns out to be the CEO of the company.

Rotating Images

Almost any transformation, whether resizing or rotating, causes interpo-
lation of pixel information. The only safe rotations are 90-degree incre-
ments—anything else will result in softening of detail (see Figure 4.4). Think
of    those rows and columns of pixels, much like the grid of a needlepoint
pattern. Imagine what a challenge it would be to redraw that pattern at a

42-degree angle. It should give you a little sympathy for the math Photoshop
has to do.

Figure 4.4 Repeated rota-
tions of an image can result in
cumulative erosion of detail
(original image on the left,
rotated image on the right).
The exaggerated sharpening
in the image on the right is a
result of Photoshop’s attempt
to compensate for softening
of detail.


108  CHAPTER 4: PREPARING RASTER IMAGES

All these cautions about transformations such as scaling and rotating are not
intended to strike terror in your heart. Don’t be afraid to enlarge, reduce, or
rotate if you need to. Just be prepared for the slight but unavoidable loss of
detail and the degradation of the image’s appearance. Try to resize in even
increments, and beware of oddball rotations such as 1.25 degrees in the
interest of maintaining as much information as possible.

Successive transformations—scaling and then rotating, for example—are
particularly destructive. Let your conscience be your guide. How important
is    the detail in the image? If it’s a key product shot, it’s worth rescanning (if
possible). If it’s a less important image, such as a ghosted background or a
decorative bit, you needn’t feel quite so guilty about the transformation.

Where to Transform: Image Editor vs. Page-Layout Application

If you are going to transform images, does it matter where the transforma-
tion takes place? If you use Photoshop to scale an image, is the result superior
to the outcome of scaling within your page-layout application?

The answer is an unqualified, “It depends.”

If you perform your scaling and rotation in Photoshop or another image-
editing application, and then place the resulting image in a page layout at
100 percent with no rotation, you do have a pretty good idea of how the
image will look when it’s printed.

If, however, you induce the scaling or rotation in a page layout, you’ve only
requested those transformations—you haven’t actually performed the transfor-
mations. They don’t really take place until the job is processed by a RIP. This
puts you at the mercy of that RIP’s implementation of scaling and rotation
algorithms. If you generate and submit PDFs, the rotations or distortions
within  that PDF are still pending, and they are implemented only when the
PDF is processed by a RIP. In other words, the original image information is
contained in the PDF, unchanged, but earmarked for its ultimate transfor-
mation  in the RIP.

Be comforted by the fact that late-model RIPs can chew a lot more infor-
mation in a shorter time than they used to. Rotating a few images here
and  there won’t prevent the processing of your job. However, despite the
improvements in RIP technology, it is still possible (although rare) to build
a      job that can’t be processed by a RIP. (Please don’t take that remark as a
personal challenge.)


APPROPRIATE IMAGE FORMATS FOR PRINT  109

Keep in mind, too, that if you’ve rotated an image in Photoshop and then
subsequently applied additional scaling or rotation in a page layout, you’ve
transformed it twice. It’s not the end of the world, but you may see some
slight softening of detail in the finished piece.


Appropriate Image Formats for Print

How you should save your raster images is governed largely by how you
intend to use them. Often, you will be placing images into InDesign or
Illustrator, so you’re limited to the formats supported by those applications.
The application may be willing to let you place a wide variety of file formats,
but that doesn’t necessarily serve as an endorsement of file format wonder-
fulness. In the olden days, the most commonly used image formats were
TIFF   and EPS. However, native Photoshop files (PSD) and Photoshop PDF files
are much more flexible, and both formats are supported by InDesign and
Illustrator. So, there’s not much reason to use other formats unless you’re
handing   off your images to users of other applications, such as Microsoft
PowerPoint or Word.

TIFF

If you need to blindly send an image out into the world, TIFF (tagged image
file format) is one of the most widely supported image file formats. It’s happy
being imported into Illustrator, InDesign, Microsoft Word, and even some
text editors—almost any application that accepts images. The TIFF image
format supports multiple layers as well as RGB and CMYK color spaces, and
even allows an image to contain spot-color channels (although some applica-
tions, such as Word, do not support such nontraditional contents in a TIFF).

Photoshop EPS

Some equate the acronym EPS (Encapsulated PostScript) with vector artwork,
but the encapsulated part of the format’s name gives a hint about the flexibil-
ity of the format. It’s a container for artwork, and it can transport vector art,
raster images, or a combination of raster and vector content. EPS is, as the
name implies, PostScript in a bag (see the sidebar, “EPS: Raster or Vector?”).
The historic reasons for saving an image as a Photoshop EPS were to preserve

NOTE When you
receive a JPEG image,

it’s a good idea to immediately
resave it as a PSD or TIFF to
avoid further erosion to image
content. Repeatedly opening,
modifying, and resaving a JPEG
can result in compromised
quality if aggressive compres-
sion  is used.


110  CHAPTER 4: PREPARING RASTER IMAGES

the special function of a PostScript-based vector clipping path used to silhou-
ette an image or to preserve an image set up to image as a duotone. If you’re
using InDesign and Illustrator, that’s no longer necessary.

EPS: Raster or Vector?

It may be a bit confusing that there are raster-based EPSs (saved from an
image-editing program such as Photoshop) and vector-based EPSs (saved
from a vector drawing program such as Adobe Illustrator or Adobe [formerly
Macromedia] FreeHand). The uninitiated sometimes think that saving an
image as an EPS magically vectorizes it. Not so. Think of the EPS format as a
type of container. The pixels within an EPS are no different from those in their
TIFF brethren. They’re just contained and presented in a different way.


TRANSPARENCY TIP:

Although Illustrator and
InDesign accept and correctly
handle opacity settings in a
placed native Photoshop file,
they do not correctly handle
blending modes in a Photo-
shop file. There are some work-
arounds for InDesign, detailed
in Chapter 12, “InDesign
Production Tips.”

As applications and RIPs have progressed, you’re no longer required to save
such images as Photoshop EPS. Pixel for pixel, a Photoshop native PSD is a
smaller file than an equivalent EPS and offers support for clipping paths as
well  as duotone definitions.

This doesn’t mean you need to hunt down your legacy Photoshop EPS files
and resave them as PSD (unless you’re terribly bored). Just know that unless
you need to accommodate someone else’s requirements, there’s no advantage
to saving as Photoshop EPS now.

Photoshop Native (PSD)

In ancient times, the native PSD (Photoshop document) format was used
solely for working files in Photoshop. Copies of those working files were
flattened and saved in TIFF or EPS formats for placement in a page-layout
program. While PageMaker allowed placement of native Photoshop files (yes,
really  — although it did not honor transparency), QuarkXPress required TIFF
or EPS instead. Old habits die hard, and TIFF and EPS have long been the
standard of the industry. Not that there’s anything truly wrong with that.

However, Illustrator and InDesign can take advantage of the layers and trans-
parency in Photoshop native files, eliminating the need to go back through
two generations of an image to make corrections to an original file. Today,


APPROPRIATE IMAGE FORMATS FOR PRINT  111

there’s no need to maintain two separate images: the working image and the
finished file are now the same file.

Photoshop PDF

A Photoshop PDF (Portable Document Format) contains the same pixels as
a garden-variety PSD, but those pixels are encased in a PDF wrapper—it’s

like the chocolate-covered cherry of file formats. A Photoshop PDF comes in
handy on special occasions, because it can contain vector and type elements
without rasterizing the vector content, and it allows nondestructive round-
trip editing in Photoshop.

A Photoshop EPS can contain vectors and text, but the vector content will
be converted to pixels if the file is reopened in Photoshop, losing the crisp
vector edge—so you lose the ability to edit text or vector content. A native
Photoshop PSD can contain vector components, but page-layout programs
rasterize the content. However, Photoshop PDFs preserve vector content
when placed in other applications (see Table 4.1 for a feature comparison
of common image formats).

Table 4.1 Image format features

Supported Feature       TIFF     EPS     PSD     JPEG     PDF
RGB color space        X      X      X      X      X
CMYK color space       X      X      X      X      X
Grayscale           X      X      X      X      X

ICC profiles          X      X      X      X      X

Clipping paths         X      X      X      X      X

Layers             X      —      X      —      X

Alpha channels         X      —      X      —      X
Spot color channels       X      1      X      —      X
Duotones            —      X      X      —      X
Bitmap (bi-level content)     X      X      X      —      X
Vector data           —      2      3      —      X

Transparency          X      —      X      —      X

1 If saved as DCS 2.0 (a variant of the EPS format)

2 EPSs cannot be reopened in Photoshop with vector content intact

3 Page-layout applications rasterize vector content in PSDs


112  CHAPTER 4: PREPARING RASTER IMAGES


Figure 4.5 This 1200 ppi
bitmap scan prints nearly
as sharply as vector art. It
weighs in at less than 1 MB;
a grayscale image of this

size and resolution would be
nearly 10 MB. Magnified to
300 percent, it may look a bit
rough, but at 100 percent it’s
crisp and clean.

Moving to Native PSD and PDF

Is there any compelling reason to continue using old-fashioned TIFFs and
EPSs? It may seem adventurous to use such new-fangled files, but workflow
is changing. The demarcation between photo-compositing and page layout
is blurring, and designers demand more power and flexibility from soft-
ware. RIPs are more robust than ever, networks are faster, and hard drives
are huge. It’s still important to know the imaging challenges posed by using
native files (such as transparency), and it’s wise to communicate with your
printer before you embark on the all-native path. You’re still at the mercy of
the equipment and processes used by the printer, and if they’re lagging a bit
behind the latest software and hardware developments, you may be limited
by their capabilities.

Bitmap Images

Also called “line art images,” bitmap images contain only black and white
pixels, with no intermediate shades of gray. If you need to scan a signature
to add to an editorial page or scan a pen and ink sketch, a bitmap scan can
provide a sharp, clean image. Because of the compact nature of bitmap
scans, they can be very high resolution (usually 600–1200 ppi) but still pro-
duce small file sizes (Figure 4.5).

Special Case: Screen Captures

If you’re creating software documentation for print, or you want to show
an image of a Web page in your project, you may need to include screen
captures of software interface components such as menus or panels in your

page layouts. Screen captures are easy to make using a system utility or dedi-
cated screen-capture software, but they require some special handling to
print clearly. When they’re part of software documentation or instructional
materials, it’s important that the details are as sharply rendered as possible.


APPROPRIATE IMAGE FORMATS FOR PRINT  113


You should understand this about screen captures: Whether you take them
by using your system’s built-in screen-capture functionality or a third-party
screen-capture application, you are merely intercepting information that
eventually becomes pixels on your monitor. Regardless of your current
monitor resolution, there is a one-to-one relationship between the fixed
number  of pixels that an application (and your system) uses to render panels
and menus and the number of pixels you see on your screen, even if you use
a zoom utility. Of course, the size of the overall image you see is a function
of your current monitor resolution, but the pixel dimensions of panels, menus,
and tools will be identical, regardless of resolution. (Figure 4.6)

An application panel that measures 244 pixels by 117 pixels appears larger
when your screen resolution is set to 800 by 600, and it’s almost unreadably
small when your monitor is set to 1920 by 1200. However, the panel is made
of exactly the same number of pixels in both instances. So it doesn’t matter
what resolution your monitor is using, or how large the panels may appear
onscreen, or whether you use a utility to zoom in. The captured image of a
panel   or menu will be the same in terms of pixel dimensions, regardless of
the monitor resolution setting, and the resulting image will be 72 ppi.

TIP Do an experiment:

In the software of your
choice, open a panel and posi-
tion  it in the middle of the
screen. Take screen shots at
two different resolutions. Make
a loose selection of the panel in
one image, copy it, and place it
into the other image. You’ll see
that they’re identical in pixel
count. The overall images will
be different sizes because of the
different monitor resolutions,
but   the number of pixels used
by interface components such
as panels, menus, and tools will
be identical.

Monitor Resolution

1920x1200

244 x 117 pixels, 72 ppi

Monitor Resolution

1360x768

244 x 117 pixels, 72 ppi


Monitor Resolution

800x600

244 x 117 pixels, 72 ppi

Monitor Resolution
1920x1200, zoomed using OS X
Accessibility Zoom feature

244 x 117 pixels, 72 ppi

Figure 4.6 The resolution
setting of your monitor has
no effect on the number of
pixels used by panels and
menus. Although this panel
was captured at three differ-
ent monitor resolutions, the
three captures are identical,
each consisting of exactly the
same number of pixels.


114  CHAPTER 4: PREPARING RASTER IMAGES

Since it’s been drilled into you that 300 ppi is the Holy Grail of image reso-
lution, it’s tempting to try to improve screen captures by increasing the
resolution. Unfortunately, this usually makes them look worse by softening
small details during interpolation.

If you plan to use a screen capture at 100 percent enlargement, just leave it
at 72 ppi (go ahead and freak out). Yes, the print service provider’s prepress
department will raise a flag, but the examples below show why screen cap-
tures   are not improved by increasing their resolution.

As you can see in Figure 4.7, the original 72 ppi screen capture seems a bit
coarse, but it’s readable. Increasing the resolution to 300 ppi in Photoshop may
sound like a good idea, but the interpolation will soften detail in the image.

A              B              C

Figure 4.7 Image A is the original 72
ppi screen shot. Image B is the result of
increasing the resolution to 300 ppi,
using   the default Bicubic method: Note
blurry text and softened edges. Image C
is the result of increasing the resolution
to 288 ppi, using Nearest Neighbor.


APPROPRIATE IMAGE FORMATS FOR PRINT  115

If you do feel compelled to increase the resolution of a screen capture,
choose Image > Image Size in Photoshop, and then set the resolution to an
even multiple of the original resolution; for example, resample a 72 ppi
screen shot to 288 ppi. In that same dialog box, set the Resample Image
option to Nearest Neighbor. This avoids interpolation by simply repeat-
ing pixels rather than attempting to create pixels. It’s not an appropriate
approach when scaling images of a photographic nature, but it’s a helpful
solution for screen captures, because of their special nature.

Converting Screen Captures to CMYK

Because screen captures are generated as RGB images, they must usually be
converted to CMYK for print. When performing that conversion, a special
approach is recommended to maintain the best rendering of black type. The
default conversion of RGB to CMYK in Photoshop will render black as a four-
color mix (Figure 4.8), with the possibility that slight misregistration on
press will turn tiny details to mush.


CYAN

MAGENTA

Figure 4.8 A conventional
conversion from RGB to
CMYK produces four-color
equivalents of the gray and
black  parts of a screen cap-
ture. Press misregistration will
turn text and other black or
gray elements to an out-of-
focus rainbow. Festive, but
hard to read.

YELLOW                  BLACK

To simplify printing of screen captures, use a color-separation recipe that
ensures that all neutral black or gray areas of the image will print only in
black ink during the RGB-to-CMYK conversion. Neutral areas in an RGB
image are those areas in which the RGB values are equal; for example,
R128–G128–B128 would constitute a midtone gray.


116  CHAPTER 4: PREPARING RASTER IMAGES

To create this custom screen-capture conversion recipe in Photoshop, choose
Edit > Color Settings to access the color-separation controls. Under Working
Spaces, choose Custom for the CMYK setting (Figure 4.9).

Figure 4.9 In the
Color Settings dialog
box, select Custom
CMYK from the
CMYK menu.

In the Custom CMYK dialog box, select Maximum Black Generation
(Figure 4.10). The curve you see may seem odd, but it merely indicates
that   all equivalent RGB values are being replaced with black. The appear-
ance of color elements won’t be compromised.

Figure 4.10 In
the Custom CMYK
dialog box, select
the Maximum
Black Genera-
tion setting. This
consolidates all
gray-equivalent
values      to the black
channel, minimiz-
ing issues with
registration.


APPROPRIATE IMAGE FORMATS FOR PRINT  117

Color elements will be composed of four colors in the final CMYK image.
But black and gray elements will be rendered only in black (Figure 4.11).

While this may look odd, it results in cleaner printing of the screen capture,
because there aren’t four colors piling up in most of the image.


CYAN

MAGENTA

Figure 4.11 All the color
components appear on the
cyan, magenta, and yellow
plates. Black and gray areas
appear only on the black
plate. This special treatment
ensures that screen shots
print cleanly.

YELLOW                  BLACK

RGB vs. CMYK

Since the dawn of desktop publishing, it’s been unquestioned that Thou
Shalt Convert to CMYK. Those who submitted RGB files were considered
uninformed, even uncivilized.

The rules are changing, though, because of the increased use of digital print-
ing. Although these devices may use inks or toners named cyan, magenta, yel-
low, and black, those inks and toners have a different pigment makeup than
the namesake inks used on offset presses, and they have a wider color gamut
than offset inks. Inkjet devices such as large-format printers utilize additional
inks such as light cyan, pink, light yellow, orange, and green, further extend-
ing the range of colors that they can print.

This seems like a good time to open a can of multicolored worms. After
you’ve been told by printers for years that you should convert your images
to CMYK before submitting, I’m now going to tell you that you might not
have to do so. That’s because many digital devices happily digest RGB and
can provide more vibrant output by rendering RGB content.


118  CHAPTER 4: PREPARING RASTER IMAGES

When you convert to CMYK, ranges of colors outside the CMYK gamut are
remapped to fall within the CMYK printable gamut, and some of your most
vibrant colors are lost forever.

If you happen to have some very colorful RGB images (tropical birds would
do the trick), try this little experiment:

1.  Open the RGB image in Photoshop, and maybe make it even more
vibrant by using Hue/Saturation or Vibrance. Get carried away; this
is  for science, after all, not for art.

2. Choose Edit > Color Settings. At the top of the dialog box, choose North
America Prepress 2 from the menu and click OK.

3.  Choose View > Proof Colors. The difference in appearance may not be
huge, but try toggling Proof Colors on and off quickly by using the key-
board shortcut (PC: Ctrl-Y; Mac: Cmd-Y) and watch for differences in
bright blues and greens. Neon greens provide a particularly noticeable
difference.

4. Choose View > Gamut Warning. The gray areas are areas whose current
RGB color will be remapped (and probably become duller) when con-
verted to CMYK, because of the smaller color gamut of CMYK.

This gives you an idea of the color range that you’ll lose when you convert
to CMYK—and much of that color range can be imaged on many digital
devices. Of course, ask the print service provider before you submit your
work  to ensure that you’re sending what they want. Just don’t be surprised
if they say “RGB is OK.”

RGB as a Working Format

Because the RGB gamut is larger than that of CMYK, it’s often preferable to
perform color corrections and compositing with RGB files, converting to
CMYK (if necessary) as late in the process as possible. If you are participat-
ing in a fully color-managed workflow, you will keep your images as RGB
with ICC profiles. The International Color Consortium (ICC) was formed
by a group of graphic arts industry vendors, with the goal of promoting the
use and standardization of color management tools. ICC profiles are meth-
ods of describing the characteristics of devices such as scanners, presses,

and printers for optimal results. Conversion will not take place until the job
is imaged. Much of today’s software offers sophisticated support of color


INAPPROPRIATE IMAGE FORMATS FOR PRINT  119

management. For example, when exporting a PDF or printing, InDesign
will perform the same conversion of RGB to CMYK that Photoshop would
(assuming you’ve synchronized your color settings across all your Creative
Cloud applications).

What if the Printer Demands CMYK Images?

Some print service providers and their customers have fully adopted color-
managed workflows as part of their regular operation. But many print ser-
vice providers (especially in North America) expect CMYK when you submit
your job, believing that it’s what Nature intended, especially when the job
will  be printed on an offset press (as opposed to a digital printer). Consult
with your printer to see what they prefer. If you’re using digital photography
or scanning your own artwork, they should be able to provide you with their
preferred settings, so you can make appropriate conversions to CMYK.

Inappropriate Image
Formats for Print

Some image formats are intended primarily for onscreen and Web use.
Portable Network Graphics (PNG) images can contain RGB and indexed
color  as well as transparency. While PNG can be high resolution, it has no
support for the CMYK color space.

The Windows format BMP (an abbreviation for bitmap) supports color depths
from one-bit (black and white, with no shades of gray) to 32-bit (millions

of colors) but lacks support for CMYK. BMP is not appropriate in projects
intended for print.

Graphics Interchange Format (GIF) is appropriate only for Web use because
of its inherently low resolution and an indexed color palette limited to a
maximum of 256 colors. Don’t use GIF for print.

JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group), named after the committee that
created it, has an unsavory reputation in graphic arts. Just whisper “jay-peg”
and watch prepress operators cringe. It is a lossy compression scheme, mean-
ing that it discards information to make a smaller digital file. But some of the
fear of JPEGs is out of proportion to the amount of damage that takes place


120  CHAPTER 4: PREPARING RASTER IMAGES

when a JPEG is created. Assuming an image has adequate resolution, a very
slight amount of initial JPEG compression doesn’t noticeably impair image
quality, but aggressive compression introduces ugly rectangular artifacts,
especially in detailed areas (Figure 4.12).

Figure 4.12 There’s good
JPEG, and there’s bad JPEG:

A. Original PSD

B. JPEG saved with Maximum
Quality setting

C. JPEG saved with lowest
quality setting

A             B              C

Each time you open an image, make a change, then resave the image as a
JPEG, you recompress it. Prepress paranoids will shriek that you’re ruin-
ing your image, and there’s a little bit of truth to that. While it’s true that
repeatedly resaving an image with low-quality compression settings would
eventually visibly erode detail, the mere fact that an image has been saved
as     a JPEG does not render it unusable, especially if you use a minimal level
of compression. Despite the reputation, JPEGs aren’t inherently evil. They
can be decent graphic citizens, even capable of containing high-resolution
CMYK image data.

That said, when you acquire a JPEG image from your digital camera or a
stock photo service, it’s still advisable to immediately resave the image as

a TIFF or PSD file to prevent further compression. However, JPEGs intended
for Web use are low-resolution RGB files, inappropriate for print. If your
client provides a low-resolution or aggressively compressed JPEG, there’s not
much you can do to improve it. Even with the refined Intelligent Upsampling
in Photoshop CC, you can only go so far. They’ll find that hard to believe,
though, because they know there’s a tool in Photoshop called the Magic
Wand.  Good luck explaining it to them.


Index


1C (one-color) jobs, 21

2/1 (two-over-one) jobs, 21
2C (two-color) jobs, 21

3D effects in Illustrator, 231–233
4/1 (four-over-one) jobs, 21

4C (four-color) jobs, 21

A

AAs (artist alterations), 15, 21

Acrobat, 317–354

collaborating with, 334–336
collecting comments in, 336–337

comment and markup features, 331–334
Compare Documents function, 173
Distiller feature, 315, 318, 323

editing PDF files in, 327–330, 354
enabling Reader features from, 334
font embedding in, 327

forensic tools, 340–346

handling image content in, 324–326
Overprint Preview option, 304

PDF compatibility with, 323
preflighting files in, 343–346
previewing output in, 341–342
Print Production tools, 339–354
product line for, 318–319
Professional version, 10, 318

repair tools, 346–354

Simulate Overprint option, 306
summarizing comments in, 337–338
unclumping text in, 255

activating fonts, 132, 139, 140–141

Add Printer Marks tool, Acrobat, 348–349
adjustment layers, 191–192, 238
Adjustments  panel, Photoshop, 191
Adobe  Acrobat. See Acrobat

Adobe Bridge, 188, 281

Adobe FreeHand, 123

Adobe Illustrator. See Illustrator
Adobe InDesign. See InDesign
Adobe Lightroom, 102

Adobe PDF Print Engine, 13
Adobe Photoshop. See Photoshop

Adobe Photoshop Elements, 102
Adobe PostScript. See PostScript
Adobe Reader, 318, 333–334

AI files, 255–256, 278

Aldus PageMaker, 4

alpha channels, 204, 211

alternate layouts, 285–289

Aperture program, 103

Appearance panel, Illustrator, 227–231
Apple desktop computers, 4

See also Macintosh computers
Apple iPhoto, 102

Apple LaserWriter, 4
application files

submitting to printers, 167–170

version and platform issues with, 169–170
aqueous coatings, 21, 56, 58

area type, 246

Arrow tool, Acrobat, 333
Artboard Options dialog box, 216
Artboard tool, 216, 217

artboards (Illustrator), 215–219

bleed settings, 219

creating, 216–217

deleting, 217, 218

hiding, 217

modifying, 218

page layout and, 219

saving files with multiple, 256–258
trim size and, 70, 73

artist alterations (AAs), 15, 21
artwork

InDesign files as, 278–279
PDF files as, 279–280
scanning, 11, 106

Automatic (JPEG) compression, 326
Automatic Recovery, InDesign, 290

B

backsaving

Illustrator files, 179, 181, 254

InDesign files, 179, 182, 291

Photoshop files, 179, 182


356  INDEX


baseline, 21

Bézier shapes, 128

bindery, 21

binding, 19, 85–90

case, 86

coil, 23, 89

comb, 24, 88–89

custom, 90

perfect, 19, 32, 86–87

post, 90

saddle stitched, 19, 35, 85–86

wire, 38, 89

bitmap images, 112
black

duotone, 205

rich, 55–56, 173

black-and-white printing, 39–42

blanket, 21
bleed

checking on proofs, 172
die cutting and, 94–95

Illustrator settings for, 219, 258

importance of providing, 72–73, 161

imposition related to, 77, 78
InDesign settings for, 292–293
printer marks indicating, 348–349
vector artwork and, 164

Blend tool, Illustrator, 239
blended objects, 239

blending modes, 110, 195, 196, 234

blind embossing, 26, 96

bluelines, 14, 15, 22, 173–174
BMP file format, 119
Bridge, Adobe, 188, 281

bump plates, 22, 207

C

C1s paper, 22

C2s paper, 22

calibrating monitors, 65
Callout tool, Acrobat, 332
Camera Raw, 101–102

cameramen, 22

camera-ready art, 22

case binding, 22, 86
cast shadow effect, 274

CDs

distributing PDF files on, 320
submitting jobs on, 170

CEPS (color electronic prepress system), 3, 22
channel masks, 203–204

channels, Photoshop, 203–204

characters, 135

chase, 22

choking, 53

CID (Character ID) font encoding, 315
Clean Up dialog box, Illustrator, 222
clipping masks, 194–195

clipping paths, 198–199, 200
closed path type, 248

Cloud tool, Acrobat, 333
CMYK color

adding spot color to, 207–208
color printing and, 42–48
explanation of acronym for, 48

Illustrator options for, 214, 240–241

limitations of, 47–48, 118

RGB conversions to, 119, 187–188
screen captures converted to, 115–117
specifying screen values for, 46

spot color conversions to, 50–51, 240–241

coated paper, 50

coatings, 17, 58–59, 159

coil binding, 23, 89

cold foil, 97

collaborating over PDF files, 334–336
email-based reviews, 334

shared reviews, 335–336
color

checking, 171

CMYK, 42–48

naming, 163

spot, 48–51

stroke, 228–229

viewing, 66–67

color break, 23

color cast, 23
color corrections

layers for making, 190–192
performing in RGB color space, 185

color electronic prepress system (CEPS), 3, 22
Color Formula Guides, 48

Color Key proofs, 2

color management, 23, 63–64


color modes, 214–215
Color panel, InDesign, 280
color printing, 42–51

CMYK inks for, 42–48
spot colors for, 48–51

color proofs, 14

color separations, 23, 100
color settings files, 187–188
color space, 162, 186–187

color temperature, 14, 23–24

colorimeters, 65

colorizing images, 285

comb binding, 24, 88–89

commenting tools, 331–333
comments

adding to PDFs, 334

collecting and summarizing, 336–338
deleting from PDFs, 333

Committee for Graphics Arts Technologies
Standards (CGATS), 322

Compare Documents function, 173
compatibility, PDF file, 323

Component Information dialog box, 309–310
compressed files, 155, 167, 169–170

compression settings, 325–326

comps, 24

computer-to-plate (CTP), 10, 16, 25

Content Grabber, 273

continuous tone, 24

contract proofs, 14–15, 17, 24, 68
conversions

Illustrator text, 252
Postscript to PDF, 315

RGB to CMYK color, 119, 187–188

screen capture to CMYK, 115–117
spot color to CMYK, 50–51, 240–241

text to outline, 126–127, 145
Convert Colors tool, Acrobat, 348
converter, 25

corrections, 15, 173

Creative Cloud, 177–182
Adobe Bridge for, 281

backsaving files from, 179, 181–182
fonts installed by, 138–139
hosting information for, 179
persistent myths about, 178–179
Typekit desktop fonts, 141–142
version determination, 180

INDEX

creep, 25

Cromalin proofs, 2, 25

cropping images, 107

crossover art, 173, 174

cross-platform issues, 147–155

file compression, 155

file naming, 148–151

fonts, 152–153

graphics formats, 155

Mac-to-Windows, 153–154
progress made in, 147–148
Windows-to-Mac, 154

CTP (computer-to-plate), 10, 16, 25

curing process, 25

Curve Precision setting, 222–223
custom binding, 90

customer alterations, 15

customer service representative (CSR), 8, 159

custom-mixed inks, 25, 57, 159

cutting die, 25, 93–95

D

DCS files, 207

debossing, 26, 96
deleting

artboards, 217, 218

channels, 211

comments, 333

layers, 191, 211

paths, 211

desktop printers, 65

desktop publishing, 4–5

dfonts, 136

die, 25, 91

die cutting, 19, 25, 93–95

die lines, 91, 92, 94

digital cameras, 26, 101–102

Digital Distribution of Advertising for Publications
(DDAP), 322

digital photography, 11

digital press, 26

digital printing, 17, 59–63

advantages of, 59–60

limitations of, 60–63

dingbats, 133

Direct Selection tool
Illustrator, 248

InDesign, 272, 273

357


358  INDEX


disclosure triangle, 268

Distiller, Acrobat, 315, 318, 323

document profiles, 213–214, 227
Document Raster Effects settings, 225–226
dot etchers, 26

dot gain, 26, 41

double spaces, 165

downsampling, 325
dpi (dots per inch), 42

drag-and-drop into InDesign, 263–265
drop shadows

InDesign handling of, 274–275, 276, 278, 301,

306–307

Photoshop creation of, 196
Droplet, Preflight, 346

drying agents, 56

duotones, 26, 205–206, 285
DVDs

distributing PDF files on, 320
submitting jobs on, 170

E

edge detection, 201–202

Edit Original button, InDesign, 270

Edit Text & Images tool (Acrobat), 328–330
editing graphics using, 329–330

editing text using, 328–329
editing

graphics in Acrobat, 329–330
graphics in InDesign, 270

PDF files in Acrobat, 327–330, 354
text in Acrobat, 328–329

text in Illustrator, 253–254
effects

Illustrator, 221, 224–226

Photoshop, 224

emailing PDF files, 320, 334

embedded fonts, 125–126, 144–145, 167, 249–250, 327

embedding

graphics in InDesign, 265–266
images in Illustrator, 127, 237–238

embossing, 26, 95–96

embossing die, 25, 95, 96
EMF file format, 124–125

Encapsulated PostScript. See EPS
Enfocus PitStop, 10, 317, 339

environment controls, 64–65

EPS (Encapsulated PostScript), 109–110
drop shadows and, 278

raster vs. vector, 110

saving in Illustrator, 256, 258
vector graphics and, 122–123

Eraser tool, Acrobat, 333
estimators, 9, 27

EULAs (End User License Agreements), 143–144
exporting

comments from PDF files, 336–337
InDesign files to PDF, 314

PDF files from applications, 323–324
preflight profiles, 313

F

fake duotones, 27, 285

feathering effects, 301

file extensions, 148, 151

File Handing & Clipboard preferences, Illustrator,
264–265

File Transfer Protocol (FTP), 169
files

backsaving, 179, 181–182, 254, 291

compressing, 167, 169–170

flattening, 195

naming, 148–151, 163, 212

reducing size of, 291
fills, 229–230

film strippers, 27

finishing processes, 18–20, 27

binding, 85–90

building files for, 69–74, 90–93

custom, 160

die cutting, 93–95

embossing, 95–96

foil stamping, 97

folding, 74–76

imposition, 76–85

print specifications for, 74
trimming, 69–74

Fix Hairlines tool, Acrobat, 352
flatbed scanners, 101, 106

flatness settings, 199–200

flats, 15, 27

Flattener Preview option, InDesign, 308–309


INDEX

359


flattening

layers, 195

transparency, 235–237, 296–307

flexography, 16, 27

FlightCheck software, 10, 165, 166, 168

fluorescent inks, 57

FM screening, 45–46

foil stamping, 27–28, 56–57, 97

folding, 18

configuring jobs for, 74–76
templates for, 76

folding dummy, 28, 82

folio, 28

Font Book utility, 135, 139
Font Explorer X Pro, 140
FontAgent Pro, 132, 140

FontDoctor, 141

FontLab, 143

fonts, 131–146

activating, 132, 139, 140–141

conflicts between, 141

converting to outline, 126–127, 145

cross-platform issues, 152–153

embedding, 125–126, 144–145, 167, 249–250, 327

identifiers for, 137

Illustrator handling of, 249–250
installed by Creative Cloud, 138–139
licensing issues for, 143–146
Macintosh  OS X system, 136
management programs for, 140–141
multilingual, 134

Multiple Master, 137

OpenType, 133–135

PostScript, 131–132

screen, 131–132

sending to service providers, 145–146
substituting, 138

TrueType, 132–133

Typekit desktop, 141–142
vector artwork and, 163
Windows system, 137
See   also text

Fonts control panel, 135
forensic tools, Acrobat, 340–346
FPO images, 28

frames, scaling, 272

Free Transform tool, InDesign, 272
Freehand program, 123

FTP (File Transfer Protocol), 169
fulfillment, 20

G

ganged content, 18, 28, 78
GIF file format, 119

glazed embossing, 96

global swatches, 242–245
glossary of printing terms, 21–38
glue flap, 93

gluing, 20

glyphs, 133, 134, 135

GRACoL color settings files, 187–188
grain of paper, 28

graphic arts tasks

desktop publishing’s redistribution of, 4–5
historical division of, 2–3

graphics

Acrobat editing of, 329–330
dragging and dropping, 263–265
embedding/unembedding, 265–266
extracting     from PDF files, 330
finding missing, 269

InDesign editing of, 270
placing in InDesign, 261–263
replacing existing, 270

scaling, 273

updating modified, 269

See also images; vector graphics
graphics formats. See image formats
gravure printing, 16, 28

gripper edge, 28

H

hairline fix, 352

halftone dots, 40, 43

halftones, 28

black-and-white, 40–42

color, 43–46

hiding artboards, 217

High Quality Print option, 316
Highlight Text tool, Acrobat, 332
hinting, 126, 163, 250

hot type, 28–29


360 INDEX


I

ICC profiles, 118

IDLK files, 290

IDML files, 182, 291

Illustrator, 213–260

3D artwork in, 231–233

AI files in InDesign, 255, 278

Appearance panel, 227–231

artboards in, 215–219

backsaving from, 122, 179, 181, 254

bleed options in, 219, 258
blended objects in, 239
capabilities of, 129–130

CMYK conversions in, 240–241
color modes in, 214–215
document profiles, 213–214, 227

drag-and-drop into InDesign from, 264–265
editing PDF files in, 354

embedding fonts in, 249–250
EPS files in, 123, 256, 258

linked and embedded images in, 237–238
live effects in, 221, 224–226

native AI format, 122
opening PDF files in, 260
OpenType font support, 135

Overprint Preview option, 232–233, 234, 235, 241

Package function, 167–168, 258
PDF file creation, 259–260
PSD files used in, 110

saving files from, 255–258, 259–260

Scoop plug-in, 125, 258
Separations Preview panel, 242

simplifying complex artwork in, 222–223
spot color options, 240–245

symbols used in, 219–221
templates, 227

text conversion in, 252
transparency effects in, 233–237
trim  size in, 70, 73

type features in, 245–251
version issues, 251–255, 257–258

image formats

appropriate for print, 109–112, 122–124
cross-platform compatibility of, 155
features comparison chart, 111
inappropriate for print, 119–120, 124–125

image proofs, 170–171

image work, 12

images

bitmap, 112

colorizing, 285

cropping, 107

downsampling, 325

editing, 270

embedding, 237–238

finding missing, 269

linking, 237

retouching, 162

rotating, 107–108, 162

scaling, 104–105, 162, 273

unembedding, 238

See also graphics; raster images
imagesetters, 29, 63

imaging software, 102–103
importing

comments from PDF files, 337
Illustrator symbols, 221

preflight profiles, 313

imposition, 14, 29, 76–85

multipage, 80–85

nested, 78–79

simple, 77–78

InDesign, 261–316

alternate layouts in, 285–289
Automatic Recovery, 290

backsaving from, 179, 182, 291
bleed settings in, 292–293
Color panel, 280

colorizing images in, 285

Component Information dialog box, 309–310
drag-and-drop into, 263–265

editing graphics used in, 270
embedding/unembedding graphics in, 265–266
files        as artwork in, 278–279

finding and fixing problems in, 307–314
Flattener Preview option, 308–309
IDLK  files, 290

Illustrator files in, 255, 264–265, 278

Ink Manager, 283–284
libraries used in, 293
Links panel, 266–270

Liquid Layout tools, 286–287
locating missing graphics in, 269
managing linked stories in, 288–289

Object Layer Options dialog box, 275–277
OpenType font support, 135


INDEX

361


Overprint Preview option, 308
Package function, 167–168, 314
page size setup, 70

paths used in, 200–201
PDF creation in, 314–316

PDF files as artwork in, 279–280
Photoshop files in, 263–264
placing graphics in, 261–263
Preflight feature, 165

Preview mode, 307–308

PSD files used in, 110, 273–277
reducing file size in, 291
scaling graphics in, 273

Separations Preview panel, 282–283
Smart Guides, 294–296

Smart Text Reflow, 296
Snippets, 265

Swatches panel, 280–281
tips for using, 289–296
transforming frames in, 272

transparency effects in, 296–307
Units & Increments setting, 75
updating graphics in, 269–270

InDesign Markup (IDML) format, 182, 291

Ink Aliasing, 283
Ink Manager

Acrobat, 347–348

InDesign, 283–284
inks

custom-mixed, 57, 159

fluorescent, 57

large color areas for, 54
metallic, 56–57

problem, 56

process color, 42, 47, 50–51

rich black, 55–56

spot color, 48–50

interpolation, 104, 105

iPhoto program, 102

J

JDF job ticketing, 13
job flow diagram, 7
job jacket, 8, 29

job submission, 6, 157–176
application files for, 167–170
page-layout file check, 164–166

PDF files for, 166–167
planning process, 160–166
preflighting your job, 165
preparing designs for, 158
press  check following, 174–176

proofing cycles following, 170–174
providing printouts in, 165

raster image check, 161–163
sending job files, 166–170

talking with printers about, 158–160
vector artwork check, 163–164

job ticket, 8–9, 29

JPEG compression, 326

JPEG file format, 101, 109, 119–120

K

Kelvin temperature scale, 24
kiss plates, 207

knock out, 29, 304

L

Lab color, 186

laminate, 29

layer masks, 189–190

layers, 188–195

adjustment, 191–192
clipping masks and, 194–195

color corrections with, 190–192
deleting, 191, 211

flattening, 195

InDesign handling of, 275–277
job submission with, 168
layer masks and, 189–190
merging, 195

Smart Objects and, 192–194
LCD monitors, 65

leading, 28, 29

letterpress printing, 16–17, 29–30

libraries, InDesign, 293

licensing issues for fonts, 143–146
lighting considerations, 64, 66–67
lighting indicator patches, 67
Lightroom program, 102

line shots, 30

Line tool, Acrobat, 333
linen tester, 30


362  INDEX


linked stories, 288–289

linking images, 237

Links panel, InDesign, 266–270

Liquid Layout tools, InDesign, 286–287
lithography, 30

live effects, 221, 224–226

loaded-graphics cursor, 262

loupe, 30

lowercase, 30

lpi (lines per inch), 35–36, 40, 42

M

Macintosh computers

cross-platform issues, 147–155
file associations fix, 271
filenaming conventions, 148–151

font activation, 135, 139
OS X system fonts, 136
Save As PDF option, 315

Magic Wand tool, Photoshop, 197, 198

makeready, 17, 30

markup tools, 331–333
masks

channel, 203–204

clipping, 194–195

layer, 189–190

Matchprint proofs, 2, 30

mechanical, 2, 30

mechanical color, 31

merging layers, 195

metallic inks, 56–57

metamerism, 66

Microsoft Powerpoint, 125

Mini Bridge, 263

missing graphics, 269

mockups, 24

modified graphics, 269

moiré pattern, 31, 41, 43–44, 171, 173

monitor considerations, 63–68

calibration, 65

color management, 63–64

environment controls, 64–65

viewing environment, 66–67
white point setting, 68

multilingual fonts, 134

multipage imposition, 80–85
Multiple Master fonts, 137

N

naming files, 148–151, 163, 212
native file formats

Illustrator, 122

Photoshop, 110–111

nested impositions, 78–79

New Document Profiles folder, 227

O

Object Inspector, Acrobat, 342–343

Object Layer Options dialog box, InDesign, 275–277
objects

blended, 239

silhouetted, 197–204

Smart Objects, 192–194

offset printing, 16, 17, 31

on-press imaging, 16

opacity, 110, 195

open path type, 246–247
OpenType fonts, 133–135, 152, 153
OPI (Open Prepress Interface), 31
optimizing PDFs, 353–354

OttLite lamps, 67

Outline view, Illustrator, 221
outlining text, 126–127, 145, 250

Output Preview tool, Acrobat, 340, 341–342
Oval tool, Acrobat, 333

overprint, 31, 172, 303–304
Overprint Preview option

Acrobat, 304

Illustrator, 232–233, 234, 235, 241

InDesign, 308

P

Package function

Illustrator, 127, 167–168, 238, 251, 258

InDesign, 167–168, 314

Typekit desktop fonts and, 251
page creep, 84

page proofs, 2, 31

page size, 70
page-layout files

checking for job submission, 164–166
packaging elements of, 167–168

page-layout programs, 4


pagination, 32, 174

PANTONE Color Bridge, 49, 51

PANTONE Color Formula Guides, 48, 49, 51
PANTONE lighting indicators, 67

PANTONE PLUS libraries, 49, 240
paper

digital presses and, 62

press check and behavior of, 175
special orders for, 159

path designation, 149
paths

clipping, 198–199, 200

creating, 197–199

deleting, 211

flatness settings, 199–200

simplifying, 128–129

type on open/closed, 246–248
PDF Enhancer, 353

PDF files, 32

adding comments to, 334
artwork from, 279–280

collaboration using, 334–336
collecting comments on, 336–337

comment and markup features for, 331–334
compression settings, 325–326

creation of, 319–327
early conception of, 317
editing, 327–330, 354

emailing, 320, 334

embedding fonts in, 144–145, 327
exporting from applications, 323–324
external editors for, 354

extracting graphics from, 330
forensic tools, 340–346

Illustrator files saved as, 215, 259–260, 354
image content and, 324–326

InDesign files saved as, 314–316
opening in Illustrator, 260
origin  of, 319

Photoshop PDF, 111, 210–211
Postscript conversion to, 315
preflight process, 10, 166
proofs sent as, 173

repair tools, 346–354

resolution settings, 323–324, 325
RIP conversion of, 12–13

security of, 123

settings for, 315–316, 321, 322–323

INDEX

submitting to printers, 166–167, 320
summarizing comments on, 337–338
transformations made in, 108

types of, 320

vector art saved as, 123–124
PDF Optimizer, Acrobat, 353–354
PDF Print Engine, 13

PDF Reference, 319

PDF Shrink, 353

PDF/X-1a format, 259, 316, 322, 323

PDF/X-3 format, 316, 323

PDF/X-4 format, 299, 316, 323

Pen tool, Photoshop, 197, 198
Pencil tool, Acrobat, 333
perfect binding, 19, 32, 86–87

personalization, 17, 32

Photoshop, 4, 102, 183–212

adjustment layers, 191–192

backsaving from, 179, 182

channel masks, 203–204
color space issues, 186–187

drag-and-drop into InDesign from, 263–264
duotone creation, 205–206

effects in Illustrator, 224
EPS file format, 109–110

image use considerations, 184–185
layers used in, 188–195

native PSD format, 110–111, 112
OpenType font support, 135
PDF file format, 111, 210–211
PSD files in InDesign, 273–277
Refine Edge feature, 201–202
resampling options, 186

resolution issues, 185

RGB to CMYK conversions, 115, 187–188
saving files in, 210–212

screen capture conversions, 115–117
silhouetting objects in, 197–204
spot colors added in, 207–208

spot varnish plate creation, 208–209
transparency effects in, 195–196
vector  elements in, 209–211

Photoshop Elements, 102

picas, 32, 75

pixels, 99, 225

PlaceMultipagePDF script, 280

planners, 9, 32

363


364  INDEX


plates

bump, 22, 207

computer-to-plate method, 10, 16, 25
created by printers, 15–16

spot varnish, 208–209

platesetters, 32, 62–63

platform issues, 169

PNG file format, 119, 125

pocket folder, 90–93

point type, 245

points, 32

post binding, 90

PostScript, 32–33
conversion to PDF, 315

desktop publishing and, 4
encapsulated, 109–110, 122–123
RIP processing of, 12–13

See also EPS

PostScript Printer Definition (PPD) files, 315
PostScript (Type 1) fonts, 131–132, 152

potential pixels, 225

Powerpoint program, 125

PPD files, 315

ppi (pixels per inch), 42
preflight, 10, 33

Acrobat tool for, 343–346

creating custom profiles for, 311–313
importing/sharing profiles for, 313
InDesign feature for, 310–313

prior to job submission, 165, 166

Preflight Droplet, 346
Preflight panel, InDesign, 311

Preflight tool, Acrobat, 340, 343–346

prepress, 10–15, 33

Preserve Details option, Photoshop, 105
Preserve Spot Colors option, Illustrator, 232
press check, 17, 33, 174–176

press issues, 51–59

coatings, 58–59

ink coverage, 54–57

registration, 51–52

trapping, 52–54

press proof, 33

Press Quality option, 316
pressroom, 16–17

Preview mode, InDesign, 307–308
previewing documents

in Acrobat, 341–342

in InDesign, 307–309

Print Production tools (Acrobat), 339–354
Add Printer Marks tool, 348–349
Convert Colors tool, 348

Fix Hairlines tool, 352
forensic tools, 340–346

Ink Manager, 347–348

Object Inspector, 342–343

Output Preview tool, 340, 341–342

PDF Optimizer, 353–354

Preflight tool, 340, 343–346

repair tools, 346–354

Set Page Boxes dialog box, 350–352
Transparency Flattening options, 353
Trap Presets feature, 354

print service providers

application file submission to, 167–170
discussing print jobs with, 158–160
fonts  sent with jobs to, 145–146

PDF file submission to, 166–167, 320
press check with, 174–176

proofing cycles with, 170–174
sending job files to, 166–170

Print to Adobe PDF option, 315
printer alterations, 15, 33

printer marks, 348–349

printer profiles, 65

printer’s spreads, 33–34, 80, 81, 166

printing, 16–17

black-and-white, 39–42
coatings used in, 58–59
color, 42–51

digital, 17, 59–63

glossary of terms for, 21–38

image formats for, 109–112, 122–124
ink coverage and, 54–57

press check during, 174–176
registration issues, 51–52
slang  terms in, 70

trapping issues, 52–54

Printing Industries of America, 67
printing plants

job flow diagram for, 7

overview of departments in, 6–20
printouts of job, 165

problem inks, 56

process colors, 34, 42

production, 10–11
profiles

document, 213–214, 227


monitor, 65

preflight, 343–346

printer, 65

Project Camelot, 317
Proof Colors feature, 166

proofing process, 14–15, 170–174

correction check, 173
image proof check, 170–171

imposed blueline check, 173–174
page proof check, 172–173
signing off on proofs, 174

proofs, 34

contract, 14–15, 17, 24, 68

image, 170–171

page, 31, 172–173

press, 33

scatter, 35

PSD files, 110–111, 211, 238, 273–277

Q

quadtones, 205

QuarkXPress, 110, 135

R

random proofs, 14, 170

raster image processors (RIPs), 12–13, 34
halftone dots and, 41

PDF Print Engine in, 13
rasterization process by, 300–301
transformations performed by, 108

raster images, 99–120

cropping, 107

digital cameras and, 101–102

file formats for printing, 109–112
imaging software and, 102–103

inappropriate formats for printing, 119–120
placing into vector graphics, 127

pre-job submission check of, 161–163
programs for transforming, 108–109
raster effects and, 225–226
resolution of, 103–104, 162
retouching work on, 162

RGB vs. CMYK, 117–119

rotating, 107–108, 162

scaling, 104–105, 162

scanners and, 100–101, 106

INDEX

screen captures as, 112–117
Smart Objects as, 192, 193
vector graphics vs., 121

Raw images, 101–102

Reader, Adobe, 318, 333–334

reader’s spreads, 80, 81, 166
Ready, Set, Go! program, 4

Real World Color Management (Fraser, Murphy, and
Bunting), 64

Rectangle Frame tool, InDesign, 261
Rectangle tool

Acrobat, 333

InDesign, 261

Refine Edge feature, Photoshop, 201–202
Reflex Blue ink, 56

registered embossing, 96

registration, 34

digital printing and, 61
printing inks and, 51–52

Relink button
Illustrator, 237

InDesign, 269, 270
remapping spot colors, 283–284
repair tools, Acrobat, 346–354
resampling images, 105, 186
resizing.  See sizing/resizing
resolution, 34

determining for images, 103–104, 162
digital presses and, 63

PDF settings for, 323–324, 325

Photoshop considerations, 185
scaled images and, 105

screen captures and, 113–115
retouching images, 162, 171
RGB color

color correction with, 185
converting to CMYK, 119, 187–188

digital output of, 11, 118–119

screen captures converted from, 115–117
working with, 118–119

RHEM lighting indicators, 67
rich black, 55–56, 173

RIPs. See raster image processors
ROOM (RIP once, output many), 34
rosette pattern, 44

rotation

checking layout files for, 165

of raster images, 107–108, 162, 184–185

365


366  INDEX


S

saddle stitching, 18, 19, 35, 85–86

salesperson, 6, 8, 158–159
Save As command, 291
Save As PDF option, 315
saving

back to older versions, 179, 181–182
files with multiple artboards, 256–258
Illustrator files, 255–258, 259–260

Photoshop files, 210–212
symbols in Illustrator, 221
vector art as PDFs, 123–124

scaling

checking layout files for, 165
frames and graphics, 272–273
raster images, 104–105, 162

resampling and, 184

vector graphics, 121

scanners, 35, 100–101, 106

scanning artwork, 11, 106

scatter proofs, 35, 170

schedulers, 9, 35

Scoop plug-in, 125, 258

scoring, 35, 93

screen angle, 35, 44

screen captures, 112–117
converting to CMYK, 115–117
resolution of, 113–115

screen fonts, 131–132

screen printing, 17, 35

screen ruling, 35–36, 40–41, 63

screen values, 46

Selection tool, InDesign, 272, 273
sending job files, 166–170

application files, 167–170

PDF files, 166–167

See also job submission
Separations Preview panel

Illustrator, 242

InDesign, 282–283
service bureau licenses, 144

Set Page Boxes dialog box, Acrobat, 350–352
shadow effects, 274–275, 276, 278

See also drop shadows

Shared Review wizard, Acrobat, 335
sharing

PDF files, 335–336

preflight profiles, 313

sheetfed presses, 36

shingling, 84–85

shipping, 20

short print runs, 59
signatures, 36, 80
signing    off on proofs, 174
silhouettes, 36, 197–204

channel masks for, 203–204
checking on proofs, 171
edge detection for, 201–202
path creation for, 197–200

soft-edged subjects and, 201–204
simple imposition, 77–78

Simplify dialog box, Illustrator, 222–223
Simulate Overprint option, 305, 306
size considerations

for file size, 291

for print planning, 160–161
for trim size, 70–72

sizing/resizing
artboards, 218

raster images, 104–105
Smallest File Size option, 315–316
Smart Guides (InDesign), 294–296

setting preferences for, 295–296
Smart Spacing indicators, 295

Smart Objects, 101, 192–194
Smart Text Reflow, 296
Snippets, InDesign, 265

soft proofs, 14

special effects, 172

specialty inks, 56–57

spiral binding, 23, 89

spot colors, 36, 48–51

3D artwork and, 231–233
acronyms used for, 50

adding to CMYK images, 207–208
advantages of using, 49

checking on proofs, 173
choosing for duotones, 206

converting to CMYK, 50–51, 240–241
digital presses and, 61–62

guides for choosing, 48, 49

Illustrator options for, 231–232, 240–245
InDesign options for, 280–284
remapping  with Ink Manager, 283–284
transparency and, 233, 303–304

spot varnishes, 58, 59, 208–209


INDEX

367


spreading, 53

Stamps tool, Acrobat, 332
stat camera, 36

Sticky Notes, 331–332

stitching, 18

stochastic screening, 36, 45–46

stories, linked, 288–289

strokes, 228–231

subsetting fonts, 327

substituting fonts, 138

Suitcase Fusion, 132, 140

summarizing comments on PDFs, 337–338
SVG filters, Illustrator, 224

Swatch Options dialog box, Illustrator, 243
swatches

global, 242–245

Illustrator, 242–245

InDesign, 280–283
Swatches panel

Illustrator, 245

InDesign, 280–281
Symbol tools, Illustrator, 220
symbols, Illustrator, 219–221
system fonts

Macintosh OS X, 136
Windows OS, 137

T

TAC (total area coverage), 36
templates

folding project, 76

Illustrator, 227
text

checking on proofs, 172
converting to outlines, 126–127, 145
editing in Acrobat, 328–329
Illustrator features for, 245–251
rasterization of, 300–301
transparency flattening and, 298
unclumping in Acrobat Pro, 255

vector graphics and, 125–127, 163–164
version issues related to, 252–255
See  also fonts

Text Box tool, Acrobat, 332
Text Edit tools, Acrobat, 332
TIFF files, 109, 211, 238

toner-based printing. See digital printing
touch plates, 207

TouchUp tool, Acrobat, 330
Toyo Color Finder, 48
trade shops, 37

transforming frames, 272

transparencies, 37

Transparency Blend Space, 298–299
transparency effects

Illustrator, 233–237

InDesign, 296–307

Photoshop, 195–196

Transparency Flattener Presets, 300, 301–303
transparency flattening

Acrobat and, 353

drop shadows and, 306–307
Illustrator and, 235–237

InDesign and, 296–307

layer stacking order and, 298
spot colors and, 303–304

Trap Presets feature, Acrobat, 354
trapping, 13, 37, 52–54, 172, 354

trimming, 18, 69–74

bleed provided for, 72–73
margin added for, 73
printer marks for, 348–349
trim size and, 70–72

tritones, 205

TrueType fonts, 132–133, 152

TRUMATCH Colorfinder, 51

two-color jobs, 39–40

type features (Illustrator), 245–251
embedded fonts, 249–250

open/closed paths, 246–248

outlined type, 250

point and area type, 245–246
Typekit desktop fonts and, 251
version issues and, 252–255
See  also fonts; text

Type on a Path Tool, 246
Type tool, Illustrator, 245

Typekit desktop fonts, 141–142, 180, 251

typesetters, 37

U

uncoated paper, 50

unembedding images, 238

Unicode, 133

UPC (universal product code), 37
Update Link button, 269


368  INDEX


updating graphics, 269–270

uppercase, 37

UV coatings, 37, 58

V

variable data printing (VDP), 13, 38, 60, 160

varnishes, 17, 38, 58–59, 159, 208–209

vector graphics, 121–130
color naming for, 163

file formats for printing, 122–124
inappropriate formats for printing, 124–125
incorporating images into, 127

Photoshop images and, 209–211

pre-job submission check of, 163–164
programs for creating, 129

raster images vs., 121
rasterization of, 125, 300–301

simplifying, 128–129

Smart Objects as, 192, 193–194

text handling in, 125–127, 163–164

version issues, 180–181

Illustrator files and, 251–255, 257–258
job submission and, 168–169

viewing booth, 38, 66

W

Warnock, John, 317

web presses, 38

Web-based PDF files, 320
white point setting, 68
Windows computers

cross-platform issues, 147–155

filenaming conventions, 148–151

font activation, 140

system fonts, 137

wire binding, 38, 89
WMF file format, 124
work paths, 200

Y

Yucky Discolored Box Syndrome (YDBS), 304–306

Z

ZIP compression, 155, 326

